---
title: "Terms and Conditions"
description: ""
page_header_image: "images/background/about-overlay.jpg" 
draft: false
---

### Introduction

MeruSphere Technologies Private limited (hereinafter referred to as "the Company”), through its Website and Mobile Application called "MeruSphere” (hereinafter referred to as "the platform”)  allows the customer or users to interact with the Company products.

MeruSphere Technologies Private limited is an intermediary as defined under Section 2 (w) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 and these Terms of Use are in consonance with the provisions of Rule 3 (1) of the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011.

By clicking "Join Now”, "Sign Up”, registering, accessing or using the platform, you agree to enter into a legally binding contract and be bound by the present Terms of Use. If you do not agree to any of the Terms of Use, you should not click "Join Now” (or similar) and should not access or otherwise use the platform or the Product and Services. If you wish to terminate this agreement at any time, it can be done by closing the user account and no longer accessing or using the platform or Products and Services.

Even otherwise, when you use the platform, you agree to all of these Terms of Use. The use of the platform is also subject to The company's other policies including but not limited to Privacy Policy which covers how The company collects, uses, shares and stores personal information of users.

You acknowledge that you have read these Terms of Use, the other Policies including but not limited to Privacy Policy and agree to all its terms and conditions.

The company reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to change, modify, add or remove portions of these Terms of Use. We shall notify You of any updates or changes in the Terms of use. Post such notification, It shall be your responsibility to review the updated Terms of use. Your continued use of the platform following the posting of changes to the Terms of Use and the aforementioned notification shall be deemed to mean that you have reviewed the updated Terms of Use and accept and agree to the updated Terms of use.

The company reserves the right to terminate Your Account/this agreement and/or refuse to provide You with access to the platform if it is brought to The company's notice or if it is discovered that you are not eligible to use the platform.

These Terms of Use shall be deemed to be an electronic record laying down the mutually acceptable terms for use of The company platform by You. Being an electronic record generated by or through a computer system, it does not require any physical or digital signatures.

<hr>

### Definitions

*  "Transaction Fees” shall mean the charges payable by the User for availing the the Products.

* "Products and Services” shall mean products, features, services, technologies, software etc. that are being offered on the platform.

<hr>

### Information Usage

The platform along with the Products and Services are licensed and not sold (hereinafter together referred to as "the License”) to You for use only and solely in line with present Terms of Use.

This License is being provided by the Company having its registered address at Plot# 88, Phase-3, Kavuri Hills, Madhapur, Hyderabad, Telangana, India. The terms MeruSphere and the Company are used interchangeably in the Terms since MeruSphere is a platform owned and run by the Company.

<hr>

### Information – how it may be shared

The company may disclose or share your Information which includes your Personal Information to enable providing of Products and Services:

* Disclosure as required by law or to authorities. Your Information may be shared with authorities such as statutory authorities or under court orders; to establish or exercise legal rights; to defend against legal claims; or as otherwise required by law.

* Disclosure to third parties including payment gateways The company may be required to provide, disclose or share Information, that is collected from You to third-party service providers to provide and ensure availability of Products and Services, payment gateways etc.

* Sharing of Information with prospective suitors or acquirers Information may be required to be disclosed acquirer, assignee or other successor entity in connection with a sale, merger, or reorganization of all or substantially all of the equity or business of The company.

<hr>

### User eligibility and the conditions of use

You explicitly agree, represent and warrant that you:

* can enter into legally binding contracts, are not "incompetent to contract" under the Indian Contract Act, 1872 and have the capacity to enter into the present contract.
* shall not give access to your respective Account to others or transfer Account to anyone else.
you or your Account has not previously been disabled by The company for violations of its terms or policies.
* are not prohibited from using the platform or the Products and Service under applicable laws or orders/directions/judgments of courts.
* shall not do anything that is unlawful, misleading, discriminatory or fraudulent.
* shall not upload viruses or malicious code, or do anything that could disable, overburden or impair the proper working or appearance of The platform or interfere with or circumvent the security features of the platform or the Products and Services or any related mobile application, other mobile applications, or the Internet.
* shall not access or collect data from The platform using automated means or attempt to access data for which there is no permission to access.
* shall not breach these Terms or any other Terms and policies that apply to use of The platform.
* agree, undertake and covenant that, during the use of the platform, you shall not use, host, display, upload, modify, amend, publish, transmit, update or share any information or content including but not limited to User Content that:
	* belongs to another person or entity and in relation to which you do not have any right.
	* is grossly harmful, harassing, blasphemous, defamatory, obscene, pornographic, paedophilic, libellous, invasive of another person's privacy, hateful or racially or ethnically objectionable, or encouraging money laundering or gambling, or otherwise unlawful in any manner whatsoever.
	* is misleading or false in any way.
	* involves the transmission of "junk mail", "chain letters", or unsolicited mass mailing or "spamming".
	* infringes upon or violates any third party's rights including, but not limited to, intellectual property rights, rights of privacy (including without limitation unauthorized disclosure of a person's name, e-mail address, physical address, phone number, photographs) or rights of publicity.
	* provides instructional information about illegal activities such as violating someone's privacy, or providing or creating computer viruses and malware such as spyware, worms, trojans, etc.
	* tries to gain unauthorized access or exceeds the scope of authorized access to The platform or to account information of other Users etc.
	* engages in commercial or business activities including but not limited to activities for gain, contests, sweepstakes, barter, advertising etc.
	* interferes with another user's use of the platform.
	* contains software viruses or any other computer codes, files or programs designed to interrupt, destroy or limit the functionality of any computer resource; or contains any trojan horses, worms or other computer programming routines that may damage, detrimentally interfere with, diminish value of, covertly intercept or steal any system, data or personal information.
	* harms minors in any way;
	* threatens the unity, integrity, defense, security or sovereignty of India, friendly relations with foreign states, or public order or causes incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence or prevents investigation of any offence or is insulting to any other nation.
	* is a misuse or unauthorized use of the platform or is a use prohibited by law or is unlawful.

<hr>

### Availing the Products and Services

* The present Terms of Use, Privacy Policy, Application Form, and all other documents executed by You shall form the entire understanding for the purpose of extension of the Products and Services.

<hr>

### License and its scope

* As long as You comply with these Terms of Use and other policies including but not limited to Privacy Policy, The company grants you a personal, revocable, non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited privilege to access and use the platform and Product and Services.

* You may not rent, lease, lend, sell, redistribute, sublicense or exploit in any manner (commercial or otherwise), the platform for any purpose including but not limited to any business or commercial use. You may not copy, decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble, attempt to derive the source code of, modify, or create derivative works of the platform and/or Products and Services, any updates or any part thereof. The terms of this License will govern any upgrades provided that replace and/or supplement the original The platform and/or Products and Services, unless such upgrade is accompanied by a separate license in which case the present Terms of Use and the terms of the license for that upgrade will govern.

<hr>

### Specific permissions, consent and authorizations given by you

You hereby agree, permit, consent, authorize and provide:

* A non-transferable, non-sublicensable and limited right to The company to use, store, copy, update, process, and share information, details, documents etc. relating to You, that You provide on or through the platform with your voluntary and informed consent solely to provide the earned Wage advance facility. You agree and provide your consent to share your information accessed by The company provided on or through the platform for providing the earned wage advance facility, for the following purposes:

	* For better service of the Products.

	* For KYC verification and authentication by agencies duly authrorised by The company.

	* For legal and regulatory purposes.

	* For providing You an improved and a better user experience.

	Further, sharing of your information with any third party for purposes except as outlined above shall be subject to prior intimation and your consent.

* Company to share/disclose the information to any third party service provider or any affiliates, group companies, their authorized agents, or third-party service providers.

* Consent to using 3rd party service to verify KYC details and phone number and bank account

* Specific consent to share the Application Form, Preliminary Information, all other details and information relating to You including personal information and KYC documents etc.

* supersede and prevail over any preferences set or registration done with the Do Not Disturb (DND Register)/ National Customer Preference Register (NCPR).
Consent to use and gather technical information about Your device, system and application software and peripherals to facilitate the provision of software updates, product support, other services, technology and improve Products and Services related to the platform or Products and Services.

* Consent to receive sponsored content and show ads that The company thinks will be relevant to you. The company may use Your personal data and/or information to help determine which ads to show to You.

<hr>

### Intellectual Property Rights belonging to The company

These Terms of Use do not transfer to you any Intellectual Property Rights and other proprietary information including but not limited to copyright, trademarks, service marks, graphics and logos used in or in connection with the platform or the Products and Services. The said Intellectual Property Rights are owned by The company or third-parties and all rights, titles, and interests in and to such property will remain solely with The platform or third parties, as the case may be. Your use of The company Platform or Products and Services grants you no right or license to reproduce or otherwise use any The company or third-party Intellectual Property Rights. You cannot copy, post, distribute, or reproduce in any way any copyrighted material, trademarks or other proprietary information of The company, third parties etc.

<hr>

### Links to Third Party Applications or Websites

The platform may contain links and interactive functionality interacting with the websites or applications of third parties including but not limited to payment gateways, links to advertisements etc.

The company is not responsible for and has no liability for the functionality, actions, inactions, privacy settings, privacy policies, terms, or content of any such third party website or application. The company shall not liable or responsible for any such interactions that you may have with any such third party websites, applications or links etc.

<hr>

### Disclaimer of warranties and liabilities

You expressly acknowledge and agree that use of The platform or the Products and Services is at your sole risk and that the entire risk as to satisfactory quality, performance, accuracy etc. is with you. The platform and the Products and Services are provided on "as is” and "as available” basis, with all faults and without warranty of any kind.

The company hereby disclaims all warranties and conditions with respect to the platform and Products and Services, either express or implied including, but not limited to the implied warranties and/or conditions of merchantability, of satisfactory quality, of fitness for a particular purpose, of accuracy, of quiet enjoyment and non-infringement of third party rights. The company does not warrant against interference with your enjoyment of the platform and Products and Services, that the functions contained in, or services performed or provided by the platform will meet your requirements, that the operation of the platform or Products and Services will be without delays, disruption or imperfections, uninterrupted or error-free, or that defects in the platform will be corrected. The company shall not be liable under any circumstances for damages arising out of or related in any way to your inability to access, or your difficulty in accessing the platform, any hacking attacks, malware infection, bugs, viruses, trojans, or the like, which may be transmitted to or through the platform by any third party (even though all efforts will be made to secure the platform); any loss of your data or your failure to keep your password or Account details secure and confidential

The company shall have no responsibility for any damage to your mobile handset or computer system or loss of data that results from the download of any content, materials, document or information.

The platform may contain views, advices and statements of third parties but The company does not endorse the accuracy, reliability of any views, advices or statements. You relying on any such views, advices and statements shall be solely at your risk and cost.

<hr>

### Limitation of liability

To the extent not prohibited by law, in no event shall The company be liable for personal injury or any exemplary, incidental, special, indirect or consequential damages whatsoever, including, without limitation, damages for loss of profits, loss of data, information, content, personal loss, business interruption or any other commercial damages or losses, arising out of or related to your use or inability to use the platform or Products and Services, however caused, regardless of the theory of liability (contract, tort or otherwise) and even if The company has been advised of the possibility of such damages. Notwithstanding anything contained herein or the Privacy Policy or any other policy, in no event shall The company's total liability to you for all and any damages, losses, claims etc.

<hr>

### Indemnification

You agree to indemnify and hold The company and its affiliates, directors, officers, employees, and agents harmless from and against any liabilities, losses, damages or costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in connection with or arising from your breach of any of the Terms of Use or other policies including but not limited to the Privacy Policy and any third- party allegations, claims, actions, disputes or demands asserted by any of them as a result of or relating to your use of The platform and Products and Services or breach of any of the present Terms of Use or other policies including but not limited to the Privacy Policy.

<hr>

### Force Majeure

Notwithstanding anything contained herein or the Privacy Policy or any other applicable policy, The company shall under no circumstances be held liable for any damages, losses, loss of Products and Services etc. resulting directly or indirectly from causes beyond its reasonable control, including, without limitation, acts of nature, failures of internet or computer/telecom equipment, change in regulations such as Reserve Bank of India regulations, or other government regulations, riots, epidemics, storms, civil disturbances, floods etc.

<hr>

### Termination

The agreement is effective until terminated by You or The company. You can terminate this agreement at any time by closing the user account and no longer accessing or using the platform or Products and Services.

Your rights under this agreement will terminate without notice if You fail to comply with or breach any of the Terms of Use or any other policies including but not limited to Privacy Policy or it is discovered that you are not eligible to use the platform.

Upon termination of the License, You shall cease all use of the platform and Products and Services and destroy all copies, full or partial, of the platform. In case of any termination by either You or The company or in case of deletion, uninstallation, discontinuation of use of the platform, You will not be absolved from your obligation and liability of repaying the outstanding dues including but not limited to the amount of the Salary/Earned Amount Advance Facility, interest accrued thereon as per the Salary/Earned Amount Advance Facility Documents and the Transaction Fees, to the Company nor any rights of recovery in relation thereto would be waived of.

<hr>

### Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Arbitration

* The formation and interpretation of these Terms of Use, Privacy Policy or any other applicable policy and any disputes arising in relation thereto shall be governed by the substantive and procedural laws of India. Courts at Hyderabad, Telangana, India shall have exclusive jurisdiction in or in relation to any matter arising under the present Terms of Use or connected policies including but not limited to the Privacy Policy.

* In the event of disputes, differences or claims arising out of or in connection with these Terms of Use and/or the other applicable policies including but not limited to Privacy Policy or in any way relating hereto or any term, condition or provision herein mentioned or the construction or interpretation thereof or otherwise in relation thereto, The company and You shall first endeavor to settle such differences, disputes or claims by amicable settlement and failing such settlement, the same shall be resolved by arbitration by a sole Arbitrator to be appointed mutually by The company and You. The arbitration proceedings shall be held in accordance with the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force. The place of Arbitration shall be Bengaluru and the proceedings shall be conducted in the English language.

<hr>

### Amendments and Modifications

The company reserves the right to modify this Terms of Use or policies including but not limited to Privacy Policy relating to the platform or Products and Services at any time, effective upon posting of an updated version of this Terms of Use or the said policies, as the case may be, on the platform. Upon doing so, the revised updated date shall be reflected at the bottom of the page containing the Terms of Use or the said policies. Continued use of the platform or Products and Service after any such changes shall constitute your consent to such changes to the Terms of Use or said policies.

<hr>

### Refund and Cancellation Policy
The company may offer non-lending/non-regulated products directly on the platform. Please note, once the customer has confirmed an order for purchase or sale, refunds or cancellation is not possible. All orders are final upon customer confirmation.

<hr>

### Mechanism for Grievance Redressal
In accordance with the Information Technology Act, 2000 and Rules made thereunder, the contact details for raising grievances, if any are provided below:

MeruSphere Technologies Private Limited
E-mail: info@merusphere.com
Contact Number: +91 879 004 0138
Address: Plot# 88, Phase-3, Kavuri Hills, Madhapur, Hyderabad, 500090, Telangana, India

Last reviewed on: 20 JUN 2023